.TH pi-power-relay 1
.SH NAME
pi-power-relay \- power cycle a device from a Raspberry Pi when network connectivity lost
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pi-power-relay
.B [\-dfhqV]
.B [\-e delay-exit]
.B [\-l log-file]
.B [\-m HH:MM-HH:MM]*
.B [\-p GPIO-pin-num]
.B [\-r reset-wait-time]
.B [\-t ping-tries]
.B [\-w reset-wait-time]
.B [\-x ping-timeout]
.B [\-D device-name]
.B [\-H host-list]
.B [\-L lock-file]
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-d|--debug\fR
print debugging messages
.TP
\fB\-e|--delay-exit\fR seconds
delay time before output and exit.
.TP
\fB\-f|--force-reset\fR
reset now and quit, despite state or lock
.TP
\fB\-h|--help\fR
print usage and exit.
.TP
\fB\-l|--logfile \fR string
log filename. none by default
.TP
\fB\-m|--maint\fR HH:MM-HH:MM
maintenance period.  Don\'t reset during any of these maintenance periods.
.TP
\fB\-p|--pin \fR number
GPIO pin number.  default=25
.TP
\fB\-q|--quiet
suppress informational messages
.TP
\fB\-r|--reset-time\fR seconds
wait time between GPIO pin state change.  default=15 secs
.TP
\fB\-t|--tries\fR number
number of ping attempts per host.  default=3
.TP
\fB\-w|--wait-time\fR seconds
wait time to reset after previous reset.  default=600 secs
.TP
\fB\-x|--ping-timeout\fR seconds
wait time for ping to time out.  default=2 secs
.TP
\fB\-D|--device-name\fR string
name of thing being reset for log.  default='device'
.TP
\fB\-H|--hosts\fR string(s)
comma-delimited hosts to ping.  default=8.8.8.8
.TP
\fB\-L|--lockfile \fR string
lock filename.  This is used in conjunction with the timer set by
the -w/--wait-time option to prevent resets happening too often.
.TP
\fB\-V|--version\fR
print version of the program and exit
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
pi-power-relay --hosts 208.67.222.222,8.8.8.8
This will ping the hosts 208.67.222.222 and 8.8.8.8.  If either of them responds back
correctly, then the program will exit with no action.
.TP
pi-power-relay -D 'cable-modem' -l /var/log/power-relay
This will log any resets to the log file /var/log/power-relay and will use the
device name of 'cable-modem' in the log entry.  
.TP
pi-power-relay -m 01:20-01:40 -m 03:45-04:30
This specifies that there are maintenance periods between 1:30am to 1:40am and
between 3:45am and 4:30am.  Do not do a reset during any of these maintenance 
windows if a network outage is detected.  A time range cannot cross a day boundary.
If you need to cross a day boundary (at midnight), then specify more than one
period.
.TP
pi-power-relay --delay-exit 180
The reason for this option is that if you do not use the
--quiet option, then an informational message is printed out before
the program exits.  But if you are relying on output from the crontab
to then be sent to you on some other machine via e-mail, it will fail
if you do not have a full blown mailer set up and the DNS lookup for
the destination will fail because the device (cable-modem?) has not
recovered yet.  So, this delay will give the device time to recover,
before you spit out the message and then exit.  The default is no delay.
In the event of a reset, a typical log entry would look like:

    Fri Jun 08, 2018 @ 16:38: pi-power-relay: 
        network unreachable.  resetting cable-modem

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I pi-power-relay
will ping one or more hosts to see if they respond.
If the host(s) on outside network are not reachable via ping, then reset a 
device, likely a cable-modem, that is known to be flakey, by power cycling
it via a power relay.
.PP
This is intended to be run on a Raspberry Pi, using an 'IoT Power Relay
version 2' from Digital Loggers, to use GPIO to power-cycle a device.
The power relay is plugged into a UPS, while the Raspberry Pi is plugged
into the 'always ON' power port and the device (cable-modem?) is plugged into the
\'normally ON\' power port.  The program, when detecting a loss of network
connectivity, will drop power on the 'normally ON' port, and bring it 
back after a short period.  See the power relay product at:
.PP
    https://dlidirect.com/products/iot-power-relay
.PP
This is typically run from the cron every couple of minutes.
.PP
If run on something other than a Raspberry Pi, it will assume it is
a development or test box and will NOT do the actual shutdown, but
will still do everything else.  
.SH AUTHOR
RJ White
.br
rj.white@moxad.com
.br
Moxad Enterprises Inc.
